- - -
# Static Analysis
## Tools
- checksec
- objdump

The challenge provides a dynamically linked 64-bit ELF executable with NX and PIE enabled and the only application-specific function is `main`.

The key parts of main are:
1. Random function call
2. Use of the check symbol
3. loop behavior
## 1. Rand function call
```assembly
call   <__isoc99_scanf@plt>
cmp    eax,0x1
je     <main+0x70>
mov    edi,0xffffffff
call   <exit@plt>
movzx  eax,BYTE PTR [rbp-0x5]
movsx  eax,al
mov    edi,eax
call   <srand@plt>
call   <rand@plt>
```

The program reads a value from the user input, and passes it to `srand()`. It immediately calls `rand()`, so the generated pseudo-random value depends entirely on the user's input.

## 2. Check symbol

```assembly
mov    edx,DWORD PTR [rbp-0x4]
movsxd rdx,edx
lea    rcx,[rdx*4+0x0]
lea    rdx,[rip+0x2e63]        # <check>
mov    edx,DWORD PTR [rcx+rdx*1]
```

After the call to `rand()`, the instruction 
```assembly
lea rdx, [rip+0x2e63]
```
loads the address of the symbol check. The subsequent address calculation multiplies the value stored in `rbp-0x4` (loop index) by four before adding it to the base address, indicating that check is an array of 32-bit integers.
## 3. Loop behavior

The control flow is determined by two important `cmp` instructions located at `main+155` and `main+214`.

The first comparison checks the value returned by `rand()` (`eax`) against the current element of the `check` array (`edx`). If the values differ, the program immediately calls `exit()`. Otherwise, the loop index stored at `rbp-0x4` is incremented.

The second comparison checks whether the loop index has reached `0x1c` (28 in decimal). If it has not, execution jumps back to generate another pseudo-random value. Otherwise, the program exits successfully.

In summary, the program validates one element of the `check` array during each iteration:

1. Generate a value with `rand()` using the user input as a seed.
2. Compare the generated value with `check[index]`.
3. Exit immediately if the values differ.
4. Increment the index.
5. Continue until the index reaches `0x1c` (28), at which point the program terminates successfully.
## Conclusion

The program's logic is entirely contained within `main()`. It uses a global array named `check` as the expected sequence of pseudo-random values generated by `rand()`. The objective is to determine the seed that produces the same sequence of 29 values.

# Dynamic Analysis
## Tools
- gdb
- gef

To validate the results of the static analysis, I used `gdb` and set breakpoints at `main+155` and `main+214`. As expected, the program prints
``` shell
[*** PLEASE PLACE YOUR BETS ***]
>
```
and expects a number, If an incorrect seed is provided, it prints
```shell
[ * INCORRECT * ]
[ *** ACTIVATING SECURITY SYSTEM - PLEASE VACATE *** ]
```
but if I use `gdb` to skip the `jne` instruction the program will print 
```shell
[ * CORRECT *]
>
```
It then prompts for another input, which is again used as the seed for the next iteration.

The next step was to recover the contents of the `check` array. Using `gdb`, I obtained its base address and dumped all 28 elements.

```shell
gef➤  info addres check
Symbol "check" is at 0x4080 in a file compiled without debugging.
gef➤  x/29uw 0x4080
0x4080 <check>: 608905406       183990277       286129175       128959393
0x4090 <check+16>:      1795081523      1322670498      868603056       677741240
0x40a0 <check+32>:      1127757600      89789692        421093279       1127757600
0x40b0 <check+48>:      1662292864      1633333913      1795081523      1819267000
0x40c0 <check+64>:      1127757600      255697463       1795081523      1633333913
0x40d0 <check+80>:      677741240       89789692        988039572       114810857
0x40e0 <check+96>:      1322670498      214780621       1473834340      1633333913
0x40f0 <check+112>:     585743402

```
To recover the correct seed, I wrote a brute-force program (`exploit.c`) that iterates through all possible seed values and compares the generated `rand()` sequence against the contents of the `check` array. The first seed that reproduces the entire sequence is the solution to the challenge.